# Introduction
My graduate advisor worked in the past with a prominent U.S. entity (which shall remain nameless) which was interested in monitoring the cognitive context of its employees through non-invasive means in order to better delegate tasks and reduce human error during human/machine interaction. Previous studies have related pupil diameter to the level of focus which an individual is currently experiencing. The entity had developed a test "game" which contained three categories of tasks: easy, somewhat difficult, or very difficult. The goal was to collect pupil diameter data recorded throughout the test from various individuals and accurately predict when the individual was very focused vs. not very focused - assuming that the majority of people would be very focused during each very difficult task and vice-versa for the easy tasks. In practice however, the mean and standard deviation of each participant's pupil diameters during each task hardly show any differences during each task. Results were somewhat lackluster and little was done to push the project forward. I thought that I would be able to improve on their results by measuring alternative characteristics of the data and performing a few feature enginering steps before finally feeding input data through a Feed Forward Neural Network.<br/>

This repository contains a program which employs a Neural Network (NN) designed to recieve input data in the form of an individual's pupil diameter in order to detect whether or not the particular individual is currently engaged in a task which they consider to be easy, somewhat difficult, or very difficult. A short training/calibration period is necessary (approximately 20 minutes - the duration can be adjusted depending on necessity), during which time the NN learns the specific parameters of that individual. After the training period the program is designed to take measurements every 2 minutes using data from that time frame to construct a single feature vector, outputting the level of focus that the individual was most likely experiencing during that two minutes. 

# Applications
This was a personal project, and work with the entity that was originally interested in the technology has long been discontinued - which is unfortunate because the functionality of the Neural Network approach compared to their previous attempted solutions offers several benefits. If I were to pitch a situation in which this technology might be useful I'd outline the following scenario:<br/>
* Consider that you have a small workforce to which you must delegate a handful of tasks in teams. 
* Using a similar test "game" which contains tasks that can be reasonably considered easy, somewhat difficult, and very difficult for the majority of people, have each individual seated at their workstations complete the game to calibrate the program during the ~20 minute training period. You now have each individual's unique metrics at each of the three difficulty levels.
* Once the program is calibrated, have each idividual perform each of the potential tasks while the program runs in the background, monitoring their levels of focus.
* Compare results. Say Angela, Dwight, and Jim perform task X with little effort as evidenced by the program predicting their metrics during this task as most similar to those collected during the "easy" task at test time, while the rest of the workforce was predicted to have struggled somewhat. Perhaps assigning this job to Angela, Dwight, and Jim would result in higher productivity and fewer mistakes. Each task can be assigned their ideal teams.
